>> Steve Kinney: What I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna implement the ability to create
a card, because it's a more
complicated one, right?
Because cards have a relation to list.
It's always slightly more tricky
than being able to add a list, or
being able to add a user.
But once we can do cards,
it's like lists and users are easy.
So the ability to create a card together
and once we have that will kind of just
pull in the ability to create a list and
users, it'll be kind of repetitive.
But let's go ahead and
we'll implement that.
If we look at the UI, you can see that
I've got the ability to add a title,
a description, and
then we'll hit Create card.
So this is what's new in this case is
we're gonna have to do a map dispatched
props in this application now.
Also there's two schools of thought.
Could you store each and
one of these input fields in Redux state?
I guess you could, right?
You can probably say, all right, for every
list there's going to be create card form,
so I'm gonna make more properties
on that global state object.
And I will then fire of actions and
yeah you could do all that.
But like these input fields
are getting used anyway.
I'm not that sharing that state anywhere.
I'm not persisting it to a date, I'm not
doing anything with the state other than
populating the input fields on change,
and then using that data.
So I might opt for
react state at this point,
I might choose not to use Redux state.
In fact, spoiler alert, I'm not going
to choose to use [LAUGH] Redux state,
right, cuz that is adding unnecessary
complexity with no benefit.
Right and I don't like to do that, right?
So, we'll go ahead and implement the
ability to create a card and then we're
gonna start out and we'll like with a
little bit of a hurt our head a little bit
and then I'll show you a better
approach that will help us refactor it.
As we'll see, like some of the hard parts
of working with an immutable object and
why you might consider
doing something else.
So, when this happens we need
to put a new card in two places.
We need to take the card itself and
put it into that cards part of the tray,
but then the list also needs to know, hey,
that new card that belongs to me, right.
So we need to put it in two places for
listeners,
we're only gonna need to
really put them one place.
So we'll go back over.
We're gonna a create card container.
This one's gonna be different because
it's not gonna have any state props.
That'll all be stored in the actual
react state local component, but
we will map dispatched props which is
when they hit Create card, all right,
tell Redux we need to put
a new card into our store.
So go ahead and we'll create
a CreateCardContainer.js.
Then we'll import
>> Steve Kinney: Create.card.
>> Steve Kinney: Nice, well, we'll just
populate some like default card data
that will use,
which is we know that cards have titles,
descriptions and
they're assigned to somebody.
So I'm just here to create
an object I can use.
>> Steve Kinney: Just title
that'll be an empty string.
>> Steve Kinney: Description.
>> Steve Kinney: That'll be an empty
string assigned to just be an empty
string.
All right, now we're only gonna
create that mapDispatchToProps.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll do
the kind of original version, and
we'll see if we can refactor a little bit.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we'll return a createCard.
>> Steve Kinney: Lowercase.
Make this on an object, right.
Cuz the mapDispatchToProps
always has to return an object,
cuz these are the props, right?
This will get combined with
the nonexistent map state props.
And become the set of props
that go to that component.
>> Steve Kinney: It'll take some kinda
list Id, white list is this going on, and
effectively, what is,
what's the details, is the title and
description of the card and
stuff along those lines?
So make a new cardID.
We're just gonna cheat and
just use add known,
hopefully unique string identifier and
then the card is going to be
the Id that we just made.
Anything that came from
the dispatch cardData.
And then,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll do actually,
we'll start with the default data.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's start
with the cardId we know we want.
Any default data and
then because this one comes last it
overrides the previous properties.
So the Id will be the first property, then
it's going to basically create a title,
description, assigned to that
are all be empty strings.
And then whatever we got in there
will override those, right.
That is how that kind of spread
operator works that we saw earlier.
All right, and then once we have
the listId, because we need to know
what list added to and the new cardData,
we're kind of done here.
We just say dispatch.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll start with this,
we'll have to replace this.
CARD_CREATE and
we'll say the payload is the son
in the card that we just made the listId,
and the cardId.
As well now could I get it off the card?
Sure, I could totally do that but
it's easier for me later.
So we've got an action.
That's it, that's all we need for
this component the rest now goes to
back to pure Redux as we saw before.
And we will make sure to export default.
>> Steve Kinney: Connect,
now we don't have any map stage props.
So (null, mapDispatchToProps),
and we'll give it that
CreateCard component.
So this is now a component we can
put anywhere in our application.
Now when it gets called we're
gonna need to give it a listId and
some card data, but it is,
we can put it anywhere we want,
and it is hooked into Redux, and it's able
to dispatch those actions from anywhere.
All right, that's super cool, so
now we'll go back into our card.
>> Steve Kinney: Or
it's actually in our list, and
we're gonna replace CreateCard
with CreateCardContainer, right?
And we know that the only
thing it's really
gonna need is to know what
list it's currently in, right?
So we'll say listId is this list.id.
>> Steve Kinney: Great.
>> Steve Kinney: So
let's look at that CreateCard real fast.
Make sure we're getting in the listId.
>> Steve Kinney: Actually, we don't need
to do in the render because we don't
need to show it.
We just need to do it here onCreateCard.
This state will be the title and
the description.
So we'll also just get the listId here.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll pass it in.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
now, you're like,
could I use own props
in mapDispatchToProps?
You totally could.
Right, you could totally go
back over into this CreditCard
container and
dispatch just like mapStatesToProps.
>> Steve Kinney: Could take the own
props and we do ownProps.listId.
When we refactor this, I'm gonna show
you why you might not want to do that.
But you absolutely could, and
there might be cases where you need to.
But we'll start with it like this.
All right, so we've got in there,
we've got it in the list component.
Now, it's the eternal problem
of events in JavaScript
which is if an action is dispatched or
an event fires and nobody is listening for
it, does it really even matter?
If I'm not mistaken, in our list reducer
the number of files is a common criticism.
How about that?
Redux, but
you start to get into flow again.
Likely infrastructure gets
put into place at one point.
And having sub separated out
is sometimes really helpful.
All right, so I misspelled the word
components in the container.
So I fix that.
Great and hopefully I can do more done.
This is very important, right?
I'm not seeing it show up just yet.
So let's take a look and
see what's happening.
First place I might look is
it was called onCreateCard.
So let's just switch that I mean,
I can either name it both ways.
Either way, I'm refactoring
a traditional react application here.
So let's go with the flow
instead of onCreditCard.
We don't need to do that anymore
cuz it's coming from Redux.
And do createCard.
>> Steve Kinney: Great.